As cable television has began to fade and be replaced with various streaming services, Netflix has proved itself to be a giant, accounting for 31% of the international streaming service market share. When using these platforms, statistics are given to users based on their profile and viewing history, such as how much it matches to their taste or ranking on Netflix. As avid Netflix users, we wanted to see what other statistics we could derive and learn which metrics lend to making a show or movie successful on Netflix, a platform with thousands of movies and shows. The dataset we found has both quantitative data such as ratings and votes and qualitative data such as genre, director, and titles. In our exploratory analysis, we attempted to determine certain relationships between variables. We then applied machine learning concepts and skills learned throughout the semester to determine if we could predict the Box Office revenue based on various features such as genre, tags, language, country availability, director, and various other scores and metrics. As revenue is one of the main goals of many directors and production companies, is it possible to maximize your chances of making it big by selecting the most profitable variables? In addition, is there a way to predict genre based on other variables? Lastly, we explored to see if there was a strong relationship between directors and their IMDb Score, a very popular metric. Netflix has already entirely changed the way that we stream movies and series, and if media could be produced in a mechanical way to maximize profit and success, the joy and creativity of film could be even more damaged. We will explore these possibilities throughout our final project.
